>> Jem Young: So let's go in to
set up our note application.
The first thing we wanna do is we
wanna change ownership of the /var/www
directory.
So we don't have to sudo whenever
we wanna make a file or modify it.
We just wanna be able
to access it at will.
So we're gonna use the chown command.
Which is c-h-own, change ownership.
Kind of makes sense.
The -R means it's recursive.
So, it's gonna change that /var www
directory to own everything below that.
Sorry, I should clarify.
This is your user name,
not actually $USER.
Wait no, this one is $USER:$USER, sorry.
[LAUGH] I'm gonna fix this later but
it is $USER:$USER.
Or you could also say JEM JEM.
It doesn't really matter, but we're
changing the ownership of that directory.
So I'm gonna go to do that now to
make sure I have my notes correct.
So clear, and I'm gonna say sudo chown -R.
I think I can use $USER.
Actually, let me just check.
Say, echo $USER.
Yes, so that works.
We can use $USER.
You can use your actual command.
>> Jem Young: But
I will use $USER just cuz it looks cooler.
Chown -R $USER:$USER.
And we say /var var.
>> Jem Young: /www cool.
>> Jem Young: The permissions
thing may seem pedantic.
Why bother?
But this means every time you create
a file you don't have to sudo it anymore.
You don't say sudo VI.
You can just say VI because
the directory is now owned by you.
It's little things [LAUGH].
Years of doing this I've learned this make
it a little bit easier in the long run.
So let's make an application directory.
So mkdir /var/www/app.
So mkdir /www/app, cool,
and I'm just gonna cd into that.
>> Jem Young: And again,
you're free to call it whatever you want.
You can call it Sweet New Application.
You can call it Foo.
Doesn't really matter, but I'm calling
it app just for simplicity's sake.
>> Jem Young: And then I'm gonna
run git init on it, so git init.
I'm just gonna initialize
an empty git repository for now.
All right, everybody with me so far?
This is probably the part where
UI engineers generally come in,
actually a little bit further.
But this the part where you're like,
okay, I know what to do from here.
But getting here is
where all the work's in.
And by doing it, we're almost there.
We're almost masters of the stack.
I use the && sometimes.
That just means do this command and
then do this command.
It's a good way of chaining things.
One of my favorite ones to
do is probably git pull, so
git pull to pull down from mastery or
whatever.
And then &&, and yarn install because
people are constantly updating packages
when I do a pull and
it just does it all in one command.
Not necessary.
It's a nice little shortcut to have.
>> Jem Young: We can make
the directories if you want.
We don't have to do that today and,
[SOUND] we can skip it for now.
We'll need it for tomorrow.
But if you want, you can make directories,
ui/js ui/html, ui/css.
>> Jem Young: Actually,
I'll just do it now, cuz why not?
So mdir.
>> Jem Young: Ui/js.
>> Jem Young: And if you wanna check
a directory to see what's in it without
actually going in, you can just say ls,
the directory name.
So ls ui tells me
the directory's in there.
>> Jem Young: Nice, so now we're
going to create just an empty file.
We can save the I app.js which is fine but
if we just want to create just a blank
file, we're gonna use the touch command.
Touch just modifies the time
stamp on it in case you wanna
run a search of the system.
Say, what were the files that I modified
in the past hour, so use touch.
Not used that often, but the benefit of
using touch is we can just touch a file
and it just creates it automatically.
It's like the laziest way
of creating an empty file.
So I'm gonna say touch app.js.
>> Jem Young: And have an app-js.
It's much faster than typing going VI and
then right quitting saving,
just a little shortcut.
Next we're gonna do is something that
a lot of people don't know about,
even though we probably use npm
every day is the npm init command.
>> Jem Young: See,
npm init will set up your node modules.
It'll set up your package name.
It'll add a licence.
It'll do all the stuff for
you automatically.
So I'm gonna call this, app is fine.
Call it whatever you want.
Version fine, description,
full stack front end or something.
>> Jem Young: Entry point, app-js,
test command, don't have one yet.
Git repository, don't have one yet.
Keywords, author, Jem.
License, let's say MIT, doesn't matter.
Looks okay, cool.
>> Jem Young: And now what npm did was
it created this package.json for me,
which is nice.
It just scaffolds that out for you.
It's much easier than just manually
creating all these things.
You have to remember the syntax and
all that.
Npm init is a nice command.
Let's install Express now.
Express is a node
JavaScript-based web server.
It's one of the more popular ones.
I think it's waning in popularity,
but there's lots of options there.
There's Happy.
There's the one that Netflix invented.
I don't remember [LAUGH]
what it's called now.
It's the one we use.
I'll look it up later.
But Express is probably
the most common one.
I try to choose things that you can
Google search easily expressing this,
and Express is the easiest one to use.
So now, we switch from using app to
npm because we're using node modules.
So, npm i, or npm install express,
and we're gonna save that.
>> Jem Young: Express --save.
>> Jem Young: Cool, and
if we check out our package.json,
we see it added as a dependency express.
A common mistake I make all the time is I
forget to do --save when I install my node
packages.
So they're installed one time and
then whenever I pull this repo to
another computer nothing's there.
I'm like, why isn't stuff working,
cuz I forgot to save it.
So don't forget to save.
>> Jem Young: But now, we're getting
into more familiar territory that we're
all a little bit more comfortable in.
So, let's edit that app.js file.
And what we're gonna do is we're gonna
create a bare-bones express server.
>> Jem Young: And it's gonna do
exactly what we were doing before,
that simple HP server.
I could've used the node module HTTP,
which is built into node.
But because we're using Express,
the syntax is slightly different.
We're using Express cuz we can build
on that later a lot faster than
we can with a basic HTTP server.
And if you're lazy or not lazy.
I shouldn't say that.
If you're getting hand cramps or
you just tired of typing,
you can go to this URL and
just copy and paste it.
I will forgive you.
>> Speaker 2: I think you're
missing a parenthesis.
>> Jem Young: I am missing a parenthesis.
You just copy and paste [LAUGH].
I'll fix it.
Actually can I fix it?
I think it's a screenshot.
[SOUND] just copy and paste it [LAUGH].